Features

--------Teamup------
1. privacy-> 2fa - registration- validate email address - zach and granton
3. data protection-> 
	- pitch the project to conservation organization - show impact, implementability - granton and zach

--------unassigned---
4. send notification both by email and sms to only the office - unassigned
10. forgot password - unassigned 🆕

---------Zach-------
6. ensure nav links unfold on large screens and fold on mobile devices - zach ✅
9. notification is sent once and should state the animal tracked. - zach

----------Granton----------
2. usability-> educate/guide new users how to use the application - think about tooltips, video - granton 
8. inform user, the kind of password expected - granton ✅

--------not-ready-------
7. use a diversed dataset inclusive of different wildlife(lions, elephants, hyena) - not ready
5. monitor all lions and elephants by finding a mathematical relationship between those tagged from the untagged. - not ready


progress
-------
I created an email account "aiwildliferanger@gmail.com", use it for sending auth emails or alerts.
I updated the env to accomodate the new email. Also added the app password. 
I sent Zach the env file. App should work right with this env without modification.
I updated the db.users schema
Updated the route "/register" to store auth_code and status alongside credentials. line 105-110 of app.py
Updated the route "/login" to also fetch the auth_code, status and email. line 147, 151-154 of app.py
check the TODO on line 165 of app.py, thats your starting point, also refer to pseudocode 7.3.2
check spam if emails don't show up.


user story -> Forgot password
-----------------------------
registered user tries to login.
Login fails.
user has forgotten their password
user clicks the forgot password link.
----the forgot password link workflow----
onclick redirects to another page(the page may or maynot extend the login page-developer view)
user is prompted for their email
user submits
the route /forgot-password validates email
if email exist, a random 8 digit code is generated.
the code is saved in db.users table to replace the auth_code but keeps account verification status unchanged.
A link "http://127.0.0.5000/forgot-password/<8digitcode> is sent to the user's email.
on the forgot password page, user is notified that the email was sent.
user goes to their email account, clicks the link
The link opens on a page and user is prompted to enter a new password.
user submits
use the code to find user in db and replace password.
The new password is hashed and replaces the old password in db.
user is redirected to login page.
user enters their rangeid and the new password
user submits and login is successful if credentials are correct.

---the forgot password page---
has two input fields, the email and new password.
the email field is displayed if the 8 digit code is none
the new password field is displayed if the 8 digit code is password.
the above concept is similar to sessions.
the page handles both GET & post requests.

--for testing---
truncate 4 tables
-alerts
-distance_record
-feedback
-predictionData
-reportData